Mavericks it is a legendary name in big
wave surfing and every year some of the
best surfers in the world gather near
half moon bay in Northern California to
test their skill and their nerve Akande
some of the biggest waves in the world
with the best rides on waves over 25
feet tall and two miles from shore
Mavericks is definitely not for the
faint of heart CNN's dan Simon is there
right now and Dana understand the
competition just ended we have a winner
we do have a winter we got a 40 year old
from South Africa named grant Twiggy
Baker he won this competition back in
2006 town let me tell you where I am
first of all it kind of looks a column
behind me but don't let that fool you we
got some serious waves going on 30 to 40
foot waves the reason why we're here is
because it's really too dangerous to be
where all the action is they put the
public and the media over here because
we're talking about a small beach and
gigantic waves so what is Mavericks well
this is an annual surfing competition
and you're talking about two dozen of
the best surfers in the world and here's
the catch they only have 48 hours to get
here basically this can happen any time
during the winter months and they don't
do it until the conditions are perfectly
ideal take a look what's the best way to
describe Mavericks wild and crazy and
you really have to put a mindset to be
able to do it and do it well the average
recreational surfer like myself you
stand back and watch the big guys do
this that's how important this is it
really makes a difference to have
knowledge physical fitness and the
desire to get out in cold water this
isn't Hawaii it's 55 degrees out there
and commit yourself to some major drops
there's 30 40 foot waves out there so
Dan this is one of the best competitions
in the world but it's you know it's
really one of the most dangerous as well
right it certainly is and people have
actually died in past years fortunately
there were no incidents today but you're
talking about water that's only 55
degrees there's there's lots of rocks
and because of the waves and the force
it can actually put people under water
for four minutes
and they got a bunch of rescue boats out
there just in case anything goes wrong
again everything went okay today I
should also tell you that the winner
doesn't get a whole lot of money
twelve-thousand dollars but of course if
you talk to me